Alex Wagner=Almost 16 million Americans work in retail. So it is an essential part of the U.S. economy. But many stores ― the so-called brick-and-mordar retailers ― are struggling against online competition. This year, dozens of retailers have filed for bankruptcy that... has some of the survivors looking for creativev ways to get you and your money in the door.
Alex Wagner=At the Eddie Bauser store in Columbus Ohio, the retail environment is decidedly chilly. Freezing, in fact. OK, so this is an actual block of ice?
Eric (sales clerk)=It is.
Wagner=I'm gonna sit on it.
Eric=Give it a shot.
Wagner=They created an ice box, chilled to 16 degrees, so customers can try out their cold weather gear. It's something that can't be done online. People come here on repeat visits?
Eric=Absolutely.
Wagner=For the novelty to test out the clothes?
Eric=Well, yes, to test the outerwear for sure. That's what it's intendded for. It's just a great experience.
Wagner=A great way to punish children?
Eric=Punish children...
Wagner=Like Eddie Bauer, retailers across the country are looking for ways to lure customers offline...
Sales clerk=(... the cookies.)
Wagner=... and into their stores.
Melisa Miller=So, the brands that are winning have figured that out, and are creating unique experiences for the consumer in the store.
Wagner=Melisa Miller is with Alliance Data, which helps businesses market to customers, and try to retain them.
Miller=It could be a makeover. It could be, "Meet the Chef." It could be decorating services.
Wagner=It's why Saks had its Wellery pop-up-part fitness center, part shopping experience. And Macy's is partnering with Samsung at its flagship store in New York... in the hopes that virtual reality turns into actual sales.
Wagner=American brick-and-mortar retail is undergoing seismic change... and the numbers tell the tale of woe. In 2017 alone, retail mainstays like Sears and K-mart have closed more than 350 stores. The Gap has closed about 200, and JC Penney has shuttered nearly 140.
Mark Cohen=Well, this is the uh... the current retail apocalypse.
Wagner=Mark Cohen is a professor at Columbia Business School. He says it's not just the Amazons of the world that are hurting traditional stores. What about brick-and-mortar retailers who are now trying to get into the e-commerce game?
Cohen=Many of the legacy retailers ― the department stores, for example ― who've created their own websites, are now finding their core customers migrating over to the website.
Wagner=Empty stores aren't sustainable. But novel efforts to coax customers through the doors come with risks.
Cohen=Well, if it seems like a gimmick, today's customer sees right through it. They might check it out once, but they're not gonna be responsive to it. And, more so than ever before, they have choices. Increasingly they can transact anywhere in the world just with the stroke of a key.
Wagner=For some stores, it's already too late. Photographer Seph Lawless documents the collapse of the American mall.
Seph Lawless=It's always, uh... very eerie and creepy walking into any abandoned structure, especially and abandoned mall.
Wagner=The decline in traditional retail is certainly reshaping American commerce. But it may also end up reshaping American life.
Lawless=These places weren't just a place to... to shop, right? It was a communal space. We went here, we met friends. This was a way we actually communicated with each other. This was a chat room before there was a chat room.
Wagner=It is estimated that in the next five years, on in four U.S. malls will close. So, the efforts to get people to shop in stores is all the more urgent.